---
title: Data Pipeline. Breakdown
published: [[2024-10-23]]
description: Dive deep into the realm of Data Pipeline with snippets from multiple sources
tags:
  - data
  - pipeline
  - engineering
---

## What is a Data Pipeline?
<span style="background:#fff88f">The data pipeline is a set of functions, tools, and techniques to process raw data</span>. Pipes include a number of related processes to link the series, which allow the transmission of data from its source to the destination for storage and analysis. Once the data has been imported, it is taken for each of these steps, in **which** the single-step output results next step input.

In modern technology, extensive data applications rely on a microservice-based model, allowing loads of monolithic functions to be divided into modular sections with more minor codes. This promotes data flow across multiple systems, with data generated by one service into one or more service inputs (applications). In addition, a well-designed data pipeline helps to manage the variability, volume, and speed of data in these applications.
**source: [[All About Data Pipeline and Its Components]]**

A data pipeline is a set of tools and processes for collecting, processing, and delivering data from one or more sources to a destination where it can be analyzed and used. Nowadays in the 21st generation, we must cope with each and every piece of information or data we get. When we usually hear about pipelines, we suddenly think about those natural gas and oil pipelines that carry those resources from one location to another over long distances. But here we are going to know about the data pipelines.
**source: [[Overview of Data Pipeline - GeeksforGeeks]]**


A **data pipeline** is a system that takes data from its various sources and funnels it to its destination. It’s one component of an organization’s data infrastructure.
**source: [[What Is A Data Pipeline? Definition, Process, And Examples]]**



## Steps for Designing a Pipeline

**1. Define stakeholders and their goals for the project**

Data pipeline stakeholders in a company may include:
- **Data engineers:** These are technical professionals who understand data pipelines in intricate detail. They build, monitor, and maintain the pipelines.
- **Software engineers and IT professionals:** These are also technical professionals. They don’t work directly with pipelines, but their jobs are related.
- **Data analysts and data scientists:** People who depend on data to generate insights for the company.
- **Leadership:** In today’s world, data strategy can make or break a company. Understanding systems like data pipelines on a basic level is critical for leaders.
- **Marketing, sales, and other professionals:** These are the “silent majority” of data stakeholders: people who use data, but don’t have the word “data” in their titles. They may rely on data visualization, dashboards, reports, and other data products to do their job effectively.
**source: [[What Is A Data Pipeline? Definition, Process, And Examples]]**